HOMEPAGE DEVELOPMENT SUMMARY 1. Reasoning for Structuring the Homepage
The homepage was designed with exactly five sections as required:
1.Navigation (Header) -- Contains links to Home, About, Programs,
Admissions, Contact. Placed at the top for easy access, with a dark mode
toggle for professional polish. 2.Hero Section -- A strong headline,
subtext, and a call-to-action(apply) button to immediately engage
visitors. A supporting image/graphic creates visual appeal. 3.Programs
Section -- Highlights 6 academic programs in a grid layout, using icons
and concise descriptions. Cards use hover effects for interactivity.
4.Campus Life Section -- Showcases 6 aspects of student life (Library,
Sports, Events, Hostel, Labs, Clubs/Cafeteria), each with a 3-line
description and icons. Hover effects and animations enhance user
engagement. 5.Footer -- Provides contact information, social media
links, and copyright. The footer balances the design and ensures
essential info is always accessible. This structure ensures clarity,
professional appeal, and compliance with the "5-section only" rule. 2.
Tools Used • React + Tailwind CSS: Chosen for fast development,
responsive design, and modern styling flexibility. • Framer Motion: Used
for smooth animations on hover and while scrolling. • Icons8 / Lucide
Icons: For clean and professional icons that support each section
visually. These tools were selected for their ease of integration,
speed, and ability to create a polished UI without heavy setup. 3.
Prompting Strategy and Refinements • Initial prompts focused on building
individual components (navigation, cards, hover effects). • Iterated by
refining prompts based on visual issues (e.g., moving nav links to the
right, adding glow colors, gradient hover borders). • Expanded Campus
Life section after feedback to include 6 items with longer descriptions.
• Re-structured homepage to strictly include 5 required sections after
clarifying assignment instructions. This iterative prompting ensured the
design evolved from a basic layout into a complete, professional
homepage. 4. Key Learnings and Challenges • Clarity of requirements is
critical: Initially added extra sections (About) but adjusted after
realizing the "5 sections only" rule. • Dark mode integration required
consistent styling across all components, which was challenging but made
the site more professional. • Hover and animation effects added
interactivity but required careful testing to avoid clutter. • Prompt
iteration was essential --- small, clear refinements worked better than
long, complex prompts.
